 ** tree data structers are similar to the linked list in that each node contains data and link to next node

 in trees, a single element contains multiple elements


 first node -> root

 a link connecting one node to another is called an edge..

 nodes without child are called as leaf node

 tree height =maximum no of edges from root to leaf node..

 types of trees:

    1.binary trees: each node has two child nodes 

    2.binary search trees: each node has two childs and left should be less and right one should be higher than root ..

    3.AVL Trees: A type of Binary Search Tree that self-balances so that for every node, the difference in height between the left and right subtrees is at most one. This balance is maintained through rotations when nodes are inserted or deleted.



binary trees:

      going through every node is called traversal

      there are differrent 2 main typess of traverseing techniques

         1.BFS(Breadth First Search):

               it explores every node level by level ,it starts from the root and moves to all children nodes

         2.DFS(Depth First Search):

               it explores every node by moving from downwards direction..

                     *pre-order
                     *in-order
                     *post-order


               * preorder traversal :

                   pre-order Traversal is done by visiting the root node first, then recursively do a pre-order traversal of the left subtree, followed by a recursive pre-order traversal of the right subtree

               * inorder traversal:

                     inorder traversal is done by visting left most child and reurn the data and comes back to root and print the root.data  and returns the nodes right sub tree and recursivly perform this function untill node is none..

               * post-order traversal:

                     postorder traversal is done by Recursive calls first go deep into the left subtree before printing anything.

                     Then, the right subtree is explored.

                     Finally, the root node is printed.